hey Ron we're at CES 2020 I'm at the be
quiet suite now and they've got two new
coolers were talking about I also want
to go on a tangent about TDP how it
works so everybody watching understands
what those numbers mean and then also a
pure base 500 DX and when I asked did
you come up with what DX stands for
right now the answer was no but it was
deluxe I don't think that's what it
stands right so that the pure base 500
DX will cover I guess let's do that
first cuz it's quick and it doesn't
involve tangents on TDP it's the pure
base 500 the tooling is more or less
identical there are a few changes I'll
go over before that this video is
brought to you by Thermaltake stuff ram
RGB memory available from 3000 megahertz
up to 40 400 megahertz an 8 gigabyte by
two configurations the Thermaltake tough
Ram uses ten addressable RGB LEDs for
bright illumination and comes in both
black and white kits of memory learn
more at the link in the description
below if you already know what the pure
base 500 is internally then you know
what this case is the 500 DX so cooling
has not changed the front panels change
the tops got a different filter to it
I'll talk about two but primary changes
would just be if you kind of liked the
idea of the pure base 500 which was
supposed to be a be quiet version of a
budget targeted case then I mean cool
except there wasn't a whole lot of
airflow and I think everybody watching
knows how I feel about that so this is
add more airflow targeted version a
couple things on this so front panels
got these two rather large mesh strips
they're not quite as big for actual
intake as they look because there's some
plastic bleed over here that you need
for one the clips that actually mount it
to the chassis and to structural support
so you've got some loss maybe about an
interesting loss there from the mesh but
you've still there's still a large hole
here a large hole here how it performs
we kind of tested a design similar to
this with the land call one the original
and depending on how you kitted the fans
out it wasn't bad it just takes you need
to spend a little bit more time thinking
about it but it's not bad it's certainly
better than a closed-off panel in terms
of air flow for the paneling let's see
if I can safely do this the panel is
connected with a set of pins so it's
pins 2 pads this has been really popular
maybe the last
I'd say eight ten months or so we've
seen more of this so it's still pretty
new but I like this your alternative is
just running this cable the LED cable
straight into the case which kind of
sucks because then you can't rip the
panel off like I just did so it spins
the pads and this I mean it's not like
it's it's the newest technology but it's
still great to see it because cables are
annoying to deal with it is double
filtered so there's a mesh on the front
it's not the finest of fine mesh which
is there's no problem with that but it
doesn't mean that there's another layer
of mesh filtering behind it sometimes
you have some additional well you always
have additional impedance there from a
static pressure standpoint the good news
is that the filter is seated back quite
a bit maybe eyeballing it here maybe a
couple inches sorry and I'm working on
freedom units because I don't have a
calculator with me maybe a couple inches
from the front so good news with that is
when you're seated back a bit with an
extra filter there's less risk of the
mesh material interlacing with the holes
on the front mesh so you don't have as
much additional impedance but we need to
test it so overall though I'm happy to
see be quiet case with airflow that's
really not something we've seen a lot of
the pure base 500 was a really
interesting chassis to me and this is a
direction I'd like to see it keep going
so we'll have to test it see how it does
but that's the 500 DX really that's the
main change tops just got this filter
that's inside of a plastic piece so it's
more of a mechanical thing a bit easier
you know human factors I guess is what
you would call it human factors
improvement there so I think we can move
on from that one pretty simple the
coolers there's a shadow rock three and
a pure rock 2 and this is where I want
to talk about TDP for a second before
proceeding so be quiet has a TDP system
it uses and I actually I'm fine with it
the way it works as long as everyone
understands how it works
TDP at the heart of it what you really
want to know with a cooling solution is
how much heat can it dissipate all the
power that goes into a CPU almost all of
it like if you're gonna actually mean
it's almost all of it turns into heat it
doesn't glow it doesn't move there's no
other place for the energy to go except
heat for the most part
and no transistors doing things doesn't
count so when it all turns into heat one
of the better ways to figure out how
much can the cooler handle is to run
just a dummy heater which we've shown
before ttv stuff like that you pump heat
into it from a bench top power supply
you set it equal to something like 180
any position the resistors in the heater
you can use MOSFETs if you want to
generate heat in specific locations so
you can simulate Ely like monolithic die
or you do a triplet approach like AMD
does but either way what you're doing
ultimately is pushing heat into it and
then you figure out at what speed or
what size cooler is required to keep the
temperature of your thermistor your
thermocouple on the synthesis ties IHS
at degree X so you set it to temperature
and then that's how you'd measure it so
be quiet system is that they're just
using a dummy heater TT B with power
pumped into it and then you get a number
out like 180 watts or 150 watts on this
one
that doesn't mean 180 watts or 150 watts
by AMD's magical out of the air TDP
numbers or intel's magical out of the
air numbers means 180 or 150 watts based
on the power from the external stores
going into it which is how it should be
so you can compare these numbers all
that rant is because when you hear the
numbers 1 ATM on 50 I don't want people
to think oh that means something related
to CPUs because the CPU companies I've
made sure it doesn't so anyway what you
can do with the number is compared
between other be quiet coolers and
actually I've been wrong this one's 190
not 180 so that's the coolers 190 versus
the previous one no bearing on you can't
compare that number to other coolers on
the market that don't test the same way
you can get pair against other be quiet
coolers and anyway shadow rock 3 is an
interesting one just because it's it's
supposed to be a fifty dollar cooler so
it's a bit more on the cheaper end in
terms of bigger air coolers now even
though it's large the fin density is a
bit lowered so you drop some cost there
but depending on how are the fan is
configured I haven't really tested these
fans for static pressure or anything but
a lower density of fins does mean that
you have less impedance for flow for the
fans so you could actually end up with a
net positive depending on how it's been
configured and tested what kind
fans on their the fan is point 2 amps
its 1600 rpm the pure rock 2 is 1500 rpm
also point to amp fan and for pricing on
these so that one I just picked up is 50
that's shadow rock 3 and this one's
supposed to be down which color you get
40 45 45 for the black Berrien and this
does have pre-applied paste and the
shadow rock comes with a tube of paste
it looks like maybe dow corning or
something pre-applied paste a bit
cheaper from what i understand so that's
the typical reason to go with that but I
think that covers the coolers the most
part we've got the price and we've got
the RPMs and then availability for the
DX the 500 DX I didn't hit so that's
supposed to be March about $100 that'll
wrap up be quiet thanks for watching
subscribe for more go to store documents
Nexus dotnet to help out directly or
check out this guy also on YouTube
what's your name Leo apparently okay
alright he just came off your kick here
yeah okay just coming off the street
we've just been invited over to join the
great man it looks like you needed some
help on the street I'll take every scrap
he's my British showing yes thank you
check them out as well kick groove on
YouTube thanks for watching it we'll see
you all next time
[Music]